Israeli defense minister says troops
pulled out of Gaza to prepare for future
operations including an offensive on
Rafa now earlier the Israeli military
said it had withdrawn most of its troops
from the canun area in Gaza leaving
behind just one Brigade and this is the
devastation they left in their wake
Israel says the pull out is in order to
recuperate and prepare for future
operations it comes 6 months after
Israel launched its war in what the
international court of justice says is a
plausible case of genocide the assault
began after Hamas attacked Southern
Israel on October 7th killing more than
1100 people and taking over 200 captive
now since then Israel's bombardment of
the strip has killed more than 33,000
Palestinians nearly half of them
children and another round of ceasefire
negotiations is set to resume in Cairo
on Sunday delegations from Israel and
Hamas are expected to attend well
meanwhile domestic pressure is piling up
once again on Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu over his handling of
the war in Gaza now these are live
pictures from West Jerusalem thousands
of anti-government protesters are
demanding the return of captives that
are held in Gaza now 6 months since the
war started they say the ceasefire
negotiations are not prioritizing
captives
lives okay let's bring in Rory chellin
who is is at those protests and Rory uh
meanwhile you know it's another night of
as we've seen there uh anti-government
protests how big an effect are they
having is Netanyahu impervious to
domestic pressure as well as the
international pressure that we have seen
him under in recent
days well so far he seems impervious to
domestic pressure he referenced domestic
pressure in the speech that he gave ear
on today where he said that the
protesters who have been taking to the
streets of Israel for weeks and months
well for half a year now since October
the 7th well they should be focusing
their attention on Hamas not on uh
trying to unseat him as a prime minister
there are two different strands of
protests going on at the moment in this
country one is the Strand that I'm at at
the moment now these protesters aren't
necessarily calling for Netanyahu to
step down this is about bringing the
captives home this is about getting
their loved ones out of Gaza and back to
their families these protests have been
going on uh week after week month after
month since October the 7th the other
strand of protests going on at the
moment uh is the anti-government
protests and that is much more political
what they want is for uh elections to
happen as soon as possible uh and
elections that all the polls suggest
that Netanyahu and his coalition
government
would lose earlier on this week we saw
for the first time those different
strands of protesters coming together
there were big protests in Tel Aviv uh
at the beginning of the week three
nights of protests and in Jerusalem as
well that some of which ended uh fairly
violently with heavy-handed policing
certainly uh going on this protest this
evening at the moment much smaller than
those uh at the beginning of the week uh
and at the moment it seems that the
police are standing off there's no
violence at the moment but we'll see how
that pans out and Rory Israel's finally
confirmed they will be sending a
delegation to Cairo for another round of
negotiations what more can you tell us
about their ability to actually
negotiate this time
around well this delegation is a high
level delegation it includes the head of
mosad uh the foreign intelligence
service it includes the head of shinette
uh the domestic intelligence service and
representatives
from the military as well they are going
we understand to Cairo uh to take part
in those talks this evening with what
has been reported in the Israeli media
as an expanded mandate now what that
means is they are going actually with
powers of negotiation in previous rounds
of Cairo talks the Israeli delegations
have gone essentially with very fixed
parameters dictated to them by
netanyahu's government they were there
to to monitor to listen but essentially
to do more than that and then to come
home this expanded mandate might suggest
that there is growing momentum for some
sort of deal some sort of agreement uh
you know the framework for that would
have to we'd have to wait and see uh how
it pans out um there is still a huge
Gulf of course between the Israeli
government's position and the Hamas
position uh Netanyahu was speaking
earlier on today and he was saying that
it's not Israel that's standing in the
way of of a deal of a hostage deal it is
Hamas let's listen to what he said
earlier on
today Hamas hopes that the pressure from
outside and inside will make Israel
surrender to these extreme demands it
will not happen Israel is ready for a
deal Israel is not ready to surrender
instead of international pressure being
directed at Israel which only causes
Hamas to harden its positions the
pressure of the International Community
should be directed against against
Hamas Washington has also been weighing
in on the troop withdrawal here's what
White House National Security
Communications adviser John Kirby had to
say a short time
ago it's hard to know exactly what that
tells us right now this was just an
announcement that they made I'd
certainly let them speak to their
operations uh as we understand it uh and
through their public announcements it is
really just about rest and refit for
these troops that have been on the
ground for four months and not
necessarily that we can tell indicative
of some coming new operation for these
troops they've been on the ground for
four months uh the the word we're
getting is they're tired they need to be
refit